## S3

**S3** (**S**imple **S**torage **S**ervice) is an object storage service in the AWS Cloud. It is designed to store **objects** (e.g. profiles, logs, documents, etc.) in containers called **buckets**. 

A bucket is a globally unique internet container. It has a unique URL and a unique global name. It is recommended that each bucket be used for a single-use case (e.g. one bucket for user files, another bucket for backups, and so on). S3 can store any type of file and provides unlimited storage capacity.

Theoretically, S3 is just a key-value storage system. The key is the complete path to the object, and the value is the object itself. On the same idea, the objects can not be partially changed. The whole object must be replaced if somebody needs a small change.

Uploading/reading files to/from S3 is usually done using the SDK or the REST API (SDK is recommended). All operations work through HTTP(S) requests (e.g. reading a file performs a GET request internally).

Amazon S3 offers additional features for buckets and objects:

- security

    Security can be at the bucket level or at the individual object level. We can configure bucket policies, access point policies, and network access control lists (ACLs). 

- versioning

    Versioning means automatically keeping multiple versions of an object. It prevents accidental deletion.

- tracking

    S3 allows tracking the access to buckets/objects by S3 access logs.

- encryption

    Encryption can be enabled for a bucket.

- replication

    A bucket is created inside a region and is replicated across servers. Optionally, a bucket can be replicated across multiple regions to ensure durability and availability.

Moreover, Amazon S3 can be used to host a static website.

Learn more:

- [What is Amazon S3?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html)

- [Getting started with Amazon S3 - Demo [video]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e6w9LwZJFIA)
